Tyk Charts v2.0 release notes (#5459)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/product-stack/tyk-charts/release-notes/version-2.0.md

Our minor releases are supported until our next minor comes out. 

---

## 2.0.0 Release Notes

##### Release Date XX September 2024

#### Breaking Changes

#### 1. URL Path Matching Configuration Changes

Tyk Charts v2.0 introduces a **breaking change** related to URL path matching behavior in the Tyk Gateway. If you are using Tyk Gateway versions 5.0.14 (2023 LTS), 5.3.5 (2024 LTS), or 5.5.1 (latest feature branch) or above, two new configuration options have been added to the Gateway:

- `http_server_options.enable_path_prefix_matching`
- `http_server_options.enable_path_suffix_matching`

These options allow more restrictive URL path matching by controlling whether the request path matches the start or end of the specified pattern. If both are set to `true`, Tyk enforces "exact" path matching. By default, these options are set to `false` in the Gateway to avoid breaking existing configurations.

However, starting with **Tyk Charts v2.0**, these options will be set to `true` by default, enforcing stricter security by requiring precise path matches. This change applies to new installations or upgrades via Tyk Charts v2.0 and above.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

From this version of Tyk Charts we also set the following configuration option to `true` by default as part of the stricter path matching:

- `http_server_options.enable_strict_routes`
```

**Impact on existing users:**

> - The change is **backward-compatible** for users upgrading their Tyk Gateway directly (i.e. not via Helm Chart), because by default, the new options are set to `false`. This ensures that existing configurations are not affected if you update the Gateway manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The change is **backward-compatible** for users upgrading their Tyk Gateway directly (i.e. not via Helm Chart), because by default, these features will not be active. This ensures that existing configurations are not affected if you update the Gateway manually.
```

#### Deprecations
<!-- Required. Use the following statement if there are no deprecations, or explain if there are -->
There are no deprecation in this release.

<!-- Optional section!
Used to share and notify users about our plan to deprecate features, configs etc. 
Once you put an item in this section, we must keep this item listed in all the following releases till the deprecation happens
##### Future deprecations. -->

#### Upgrade instructions
<!-- Required. For patches release (Z>0) use this: -->
For users currently on v1.x.x, we strongly recommend promptly upgrading to the latest release. 
<br/>
<!-- Go to the [Upgrading Tyk](#upgrading-tyk) section for detailed upgrade Instructions.
-->
You can use helm upgrade to upgrade your release

```bash
helm repo add tyk-helm https://helm.tyk.io/public/helm/charts/
helm repo update

helm upgrade [RELEASE_NAME] tyk-helm/[CHART_NAME]
```

#### Release Highlights
<!-- Required. Use similar ToV to previous release notes. For example for a patch release: -->

##### Support Gateway configuration for URL path matching

> MDCB v2.7.0 release introduces `/liveness` and `/readiness` probes which give more accurate and detail health check information. MDCB deployment has been updated to use the new endpoints. See [MDCB Health Check]({{<ref "tyk-multi-data-centre/setup-controller-data-centre#health-check">}}) section for information about the new probes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default Gateway configuration in the Helm chart will set Tyk's URL path matching to **exact** mode. This ensures that the request URL must exactly match the listen path and endpoint patterns configured in the API definition. 
```

##### Updated default Tyk versions

> Tyk Charts 1.6 will install the following Tyk component versions by default.

Author: ```suggestion
Tyk Charts 2.0 will install the following Tyk component versions by default.
```

##### Added
<!-- This section should be a bullet point list of new features. Explain:

- The purpose of the new feature
- How does the new feature benefit users?
- Link to documentation of the new feature
- For OSS - Link to the corresponding issue if possible on GitHub to allow the users to see further info.

Each change log item should be expandable. The first line summarises the changelog entry. It should be then possible to expand this to reveal further details about the changelog item. This is achieved using HTML as shown in the example below. -->

<ul>

<li>
<details>
<summary>Support for New Path Matching Configuration Options</summary>

Tyk Charts v2.0 introduces support for the newly added Tyk Gateway configuration options: `enable_path_prefix_matching` and `enable_path_suffix_matching`. These settings allow more secure and explicit URL matching by restricting path pattern matching to the start or end of the request path. This enhancement benefits customers who need more precise route matching to ensure that only intended paths are matched in production environments, reducing the risk of unintentional routing.

> The options are configurable using these `tyk-gateway` chart's parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
URL path matching mode is configurable using these `tyk-gateway` chart parameters:
```

- `gateway.enablePathPrefixMatching` (default to `true`)

> - `gateway.enablePathSuffixMatching` (default to `true`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `gateway.enablePathSuffixMatching` (default to `true`)
- `gateway.enableStrictRoutes` (default to `true`)
```

##### Release Date XX September 2024

#### Breaking Changes

#### 1. URL Path Matching Configuration Changes

Tyk Charts v2.0 introduces a **breaking change** related to URL path matching behavior in the Tyk Gateway. If you are using Tyk Gateway versions 5.0.14 (2023 LTS), 5.3.5 (2024 LTS), or 5.5.1 (latest feature branch) or above, two new configuration options have been added to the Gateway:

- `http_server_options.enable_path_prefix_matching`
- `http_server_options.enable_path_suffix_matching`

These options allow more restrictive URL path matching by controlling whether the request path matches the start or end of the specified pattern. If both are set to `true`, Tyk enforces "exact" path matching. By default, these options are set to `false` in the Gateway to avoid breaking existing configurations.

However, starting with **Tyk Charts v2.0**, these options will be set to `true` by default, enforcing stricter security by requiring precise path matches. This change applies to new installations or upgrades via Tyk Charts v2.0 and above.

From this version of Tyk Charts we also set the following configuration option to `true` by default as part of the stricter path matching:

> - `http_server_options.enable_strict_routes`

Reviewer 2: <img width="836" alt="Screenshot 2024-09-25 at 12 59 06 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9a48da8c-947f-406b-8bdd-3951d2462fa7">
Impact on existing users and this option is appearing on same line

Author: ```suggestion
- `http_server_options.enable_strict_routes`

```
